when you look at this image what do you
see if you're a beginner with Chinese
you may just feel that you're looking at
yet another depressing reminder of how
much you have to memorize there's no
phonetic relationship between the four
symbols you're seeing here and there's
no logical relationship between the
appearance of any of the symbols and
what they mean or at least not one that
you can guess from on a perspective but
all four of these examples are in fact
the theme to symbols repeated again and
again theme one is simple historically
this is the radical that's called the
spoon radical and we're seeing it here
eight times in four different pairs with
different orientations so right away we
have the riddle of the Chinese system of
radicals staring us in the face and you
have the exciting prospect that
motivates many students that if you just
did a little bit of extra work above and
beyond what your textbooks tell you you
could dig down into the mystery that's
left behind by ancient Chinese and that
were confronted with day by day in so
many symbols that don't make sense and
in most cases don't even make sense to
our teachers professors and definitely
don't make sense to the average fluent
speaker the language this is the
traditional character still used in
Taiwan Hong Kong and in Chinese
literature to construct sentences with
the meaning that you should do something
that you must do something that you need
to do something so as you would guess
it's one of the most common written
characters in the whole language the
pictograph on the far left is the
easiest to understand if you don't
already know Chinese some extent and
unbelievably this simple fundamental
meaning that you should do something is
displayed fichte graphically as a bird
sitting next to a man above a heart
under a cliff
in the pictograph on the left you can
actually see the bird the bird is the
top right part of the character it still
looks like a bird in the pictograph
although it devolves into more or less a
grid of lions and the other characters
and the heart is a sort of three
chambered mess toward the bottom of the
character but still at that stage of the
language you maybe had a shot of
guessing what you were looking at so why
learn system of radicals well it's a
system that elicits great passion
amongst Chinese people especially
amongst teachers of the language and the
passions are quite conflicted people
will tell you that the system is ancient
it's not ancient the 18th century is
just not that many centuries ago but
people definitely feel that it's the
ancient foundation the language rests on
and you could say it's the kind of
intermediary between the ancient of the
moderns the way that modern people today
reach out to try to feel that they're in
contact with the ancient meanings hidden
within the language all the examples
using this video are very very common
words none of them are obscure none of
them are literary and example you're
looking at right now has a meaning
similar to category and if you're
already advanced in Chinese or if you're
fluent in Chinese I'd ask you to
remember how difficult it was when you
were first learning language to glance
at a symbol like this and break it into
pieces this is maybe the most
fundamental benefit of studying the
radicals and it's something that
everyone does even if you have no formal
training or if you just grow up as a
child learning Chinese organically you
have to be able to glance at a symbol
like this and break it down into smaller
pieces so this is the first answer the
question why alarm system of radicals to
learn to see the glyphs in their
component parts to memorize new glyphs
through their components
Chinese etymology for many people is a
frustrating sort of dead-end struggle
but you have to ask yourself would you
prefer to have no meaning to explain
character at all or would you rather do
the work and come to the end of that
struggle this example I showed you
earlier the meaning is similar to
category the correct breakdown of the
character as it's written today as you
can see here very clearly is right dog
human head those are the three parts
comprising the character if you have a
teacher who made up a charming story to
explain to you what this character means
that's fine maybe you have parents or
grandparents who told you some kind of
story some kind of fable that makes this
easier to memorize you can invent your
own story you can say oh it's a man
sitting on the porch watching a dog in
the rice field but the truth is the real
truth is if you study the etymology
nobody knows why this character looks
the way it does nobody knows how these
three components were gathered together
to be associated with this meaning of
the sound some people will theorize that
maybe two of the symbols are phonetic
and only one relates to the meaning
there are different theories floating
around out there none of them are
factual they're just speculative and
ultimately as a student you're left to
wonder so sometimes we know the ancient
logic of the glyph although you can't
see it in the modern form this is
usually because of round after round of
simplification and regeneration that has
gone on in the Chinese language
simplification isn't something that just
happened once in the 20th century the
construction we call clerical script
transformed many of the most common
characters and character components and
sometimes the logic of what the glyph
used to be has been totally forgotten so
is the etymology still worth learning
here again we're looking at one of the
most common characters in the language
and you should recognize the
similarity drew your attention to this
is drawn with the spoon radical you have
it there twice so we've seen now five
different characters all of which
comprise the spoon radical forever
mysterious reason in this case though
the spoon radical is not a spoon and
it's not a human form either contrary to
what a teacher may have told you what
you may have read in a textbook this
glyph already at this point depicts the
entire body of a bear and in early
examples the bear is actually carrying a
separate piece of meat in his mouth in
some versions of the character the meat
has just become part of the body of the
bear but at least some of the time the
two spoon radicals actually represent
the four legs of the bear the triangle
is the bear's head and then you have the
piece of meat hanging for the both of
the bear does anybody know that today
does anybody learn the character that
way well you can ask around but most
students even if Chinese is your first
language you have such a burden of
memorization in front of you that people
make up all kinds of funny stories to
help them get along with the language if
you remember this as a spoon spoon
triangle moon that would be
understandable because the way the
modern characters written is indeed two
spoons a triangle and then the moon
radical a symbol of the moon because the
piece of meat has with the passage of
centuries degenerated to become
identical to the character that
represents the moon this is the reason
why I was suggesting you might have
heard a different funny story about the
character it could be that the teacher
told you for instance that it doesn't
show a bear but it shows ver with no
legs on this slide the first two symbols
on the Left we see the picture of the
bear that I warned you about before and
then we see the bear with four lines
under it so some people will tell you
that that's a bear with four legs but
I'm putting this up as a comparison
these are the types of false stories
that people make up when they don't know
the radicals the four lines that you see
at the bottom
all three of the symbols on the right
those all represent fire the fire
radical so in fact the two symbols on
the left you're comparing a bear to a
bear being roasted over a fire the next
symbol is a fish I have genuinely heard
of teachers telling those students that
a fish has four legs because in ancient
China people believe that fish walked
around on four legs in the bottom of the
sea you may have their own crazy stories
about how these characters get taught to
people how they get memorized and then
the next is the color black and in all
three of those examples the four lines
at the bottom represent fire they do not
represent legs although stranger things
have happened as you just learned the
double spoon radical represents the legs
of the bear this is perhaps the single
most common character in the Chinese
language and if you ask your teacher to
explain it to you if you learn the
system of radicals try to explain to
yourself and study the etymology you
will simply come into a dead end this is
used in constructing many many sentences
to link two halves of a sentence
together and if you were to interpret
the symbols it would mean white spoon so
different symbols for the spoon is a
running theme in this this episode this
is not the same as the spoon radical
it's a different character meaning spoon
that's on the right hand side and then
you have the character white on the left
hand side you will hear different
theories trying to explain it saying
that perhaps the spoon used to be a
phonetic character and I think that's
probably true on the whole other people
will offer you a theory that no it
really did originally mean a spoonful of
something that was white and trying to
construct the the history of the meaning
that way but the truth is we just don't
know and even for a character this
common learning the radicals is a very
limited use although it does at least
allow you to split this into two halves
and memorize that way finally this is
again one of the most common characters
and it explains why many teachers are
uncomfortable talking about system of
radicals even if they encourage their
students to do it even if your textbook
says you must learn the radicals to get
ahead and that's because characters like
this have no explanation we don't have
an explanation for how this came to be
written in two halves as it now is we
don't know how it's linked to the more
ancient form that you see at the top on
the right hand side we don't know what
it ever was supposed to symbolize or if
it ever had a fanatic value this is just
a total mystery and if you break it into
components they do not match up with any
of the the radicals people will tell you
this is one of the human form radicals
on the right hand side but you can see
just in the information the screen
that's not really accurate so the system
of radicals if limited it's confusing
even people who are native speakers
language find it confusing it gives you
more information to memorize it's
actually more difficult than learning
the language the way native speaker does
but it makes the language more
interesting and more rewarding if you
ask yourself the question should I study
the system of radicals should I learn
the history of this character to the
extent that it's knowable should I learn
to break this down into its component
parts I think the reverse question is
what alternative do you have as surreal
and strange as it is Birdman heart cliff
these are the types of pictographic
puzzles that you'll be memorizing in
thousands if you're serious about
learning written Chinese